Atoms are based on 7 levels containing 2,8,18,32,32,32,32 max electrons.  
Stereo mode is done by having Red and Blue electron-spheres.

The objects used are
1 Camera
1 Light
1 Mesh to hold the exploding central atom.
1 Lines object to draw lines between atoms per level.
1 Large Red Central Sphere
1 Large Blue Central Sphere
1 Small Red Sphere used as a template to create each levels electrons.
1 Small Blue Sphere used as a template to create each levels electrons.
14 Dummycubes: 7 each for red and blue levels. Used to rotate the levels in individual X,Y,Z rotations.

(A Cadencer and Timer, the GlScene and Viewer components)

The Mesh loads a sphere.3ds file to explode later...
Each Dummycube has (2 to 32) spheres dynamically created as children to be that levels electrons. 
They use 1 sphere as a template (Red or Blue).
There is a form to alter the selected Levels Color, X,Y,Z rotation and Toggle the display of a line connecting 
the selected levels electron spheres. 
The line gets the always changing Absolute Coordinates of the Dummycube children-spheres. 
The rotation is controlled by the Cadencers Delta time, a Speed variable, (and an absolute speed variable) , 
while the lines display maintains its own speed (less often than the rotations).

The About form contains a memo with Help hints about the Keyboard key actions. 
There is capability to alter the speed of rotation +- , Cpu use, Camera Zoom properties (Focal length and Depth of field), 
Camera look angle, Reset the speed to default, and enable the explosion of the central sphere.

Changing to 2D and back to 3D will reset rotations if they get buggered... usefull if Stereo mode is desired. 
The odds are Stereo mode is not done correctly, might require 2 or 3 Cameras and lights: 1 each for Red and Blue and 1 
for normal mode. Might be best done in direct mode as doing two views from 2 cameras at the same time seems weird. 
The original c code is enclosed in the zip file. Maybe alternating display of the Red/Blue atoms is the way to do it... 
This is for Red/Blue glasses... not those on/off lcd goggles.

THINGS to DO:

Experiment by changing the hierarchy of the Dummycubes to view the rotation affects.  
Realize the rotations of each level are dependent on the other part of the X,Y,Z rotation parameters.

Create your own .3ds object to explode. (The object X,Y,Z center, scale, Material properties, ... could be improved 
from my quick one).

Create all the atoms from meshes so they all can explode.

Create a database linked to the Atom tag to display Atomic facts and fiction in a new form.

Change the thing into Atom classes so they can be combined into molecules... 
Each Atom would have 7 Level classes. 
Each Level Class would have a Color parameter and a Line Object in addition to the Element structure. 
An atom would have to contain the capability to LINK atom structures to each other... 
depending on REAL capabilities of outer levels allowing links to other atoms if missing an electron(s).

